# HEAL Resource Tracker

*HEAL DSC Core Metadata piece to track and provide basic information about resource(s)/file(s) that support/are produced by/result from experiments you perform/will perform as part of your HEAL study.Objective is to list at least all files that will be submitted to a data repository in order to describe what each file is, how they relate to each other/how to use them, and how they relate to results/publications shared by the study group. Files may include results files (e.g. publications or draft publications/pieces of publications), processed and raw data files, protocol and analytic plan files, data dictionaries for tabular data files, other metadata as appropriate to data/field type, etc.*

## Properties

- **`resource.id`** *(string)*: Unique ID assigned to each resource file; If using the DSC Packaging application to annotate your resource(s), these IDs will be auto-assigned when you use the Add DSC Package button above the form to add your DSC Package Directory. Auto-assignment of IDs occurs by searching the directory for any resource annotation files already saved, identifying the resource ID with the highest resource ID number, and adding 1 to that number to get the resource ID number and unique resource ID for the current resource.
- **`path`** *(string)*: The full file path to your resource file. If you are using the DSC Packaging application and would like to use a single form to annotate multiple 'like' files, click the 'Add Multiple like Files' button above the form and drag and drop all of the like files you want to annotate together in that box. The file path for the first of the file paths you dropped in the box will be added to this field.
- **`description`** *(string)*: A description of your resource. For resources that consist of multiple 'like' files, provide a description of the multi-file resource here and use the Resource File Description field to provide any description specific to each/any one specific file in the set.
- **`category`** *(string)*: Broad category your resource falls into; Generally, these categories are: results, data, metadata, code. However, the actual category options parse the categories just a bit finer (e.g. options for data resources include either 'tabular-data' or 'non-tabular-data'). Must be one of: `["", "multi-result", "single-result", "tabular-data", "non-tabular-data", "metadata", "code"]`.
- **`exp.belongs.to`** *(string)*: If the file pertains specifically to one of the study experiments, list the experiment ID for that experiment here; If the file pertains to more than one experiment, or to all experiments/the study as a whole, leave this blank; Use the experiment ID as assigned/formatted in your Experiment Tracker file (prefix is 'exp-' followed by a number starting with 1 for the first experiment, and iterating by 1 for each successive experiment - i.e. exp-1, exp-2, etc.).
- **`name`** *(string)*: File path stem; Auto-inferred from file path.
- **`title`** *(string)*: Human-readable title/name of resource.
- **`description.file.name.convention`** *(string)*: For multi-file resource containing multiple files of the same type (multiple 'like' files), provide the naming convention of the files (e.g. for a file set: [subject-01-protocol-A-day-2020-06-05.csv, subject-02-protocol-A-day-2020-06-05.csv, subject-02-protocol-B-day-2020-12-05.csv], you would specify the naming convention as: subject-{subject ID}-protocol-{protocol ID}-day-{date of measurment in YYYY-MM-DD}). If you are using the DSC Packaging application, you can use the Apply Name Convention button above the form to validate your name convention format and use a valid file name convention to generate a minimal 'Resource File Description' that is a minimal description specific to each file in the multi-file resource set.
- **`description.file`** *(string)*: For a multi-file resource containing multiple files of the same type (multiple 'like' files), a description specific to the specific current file that is a component of that multi-file set.
- **`description.row`** *(string)*: For a tabular data resource, a description of what one row in the tabular data resource represents; e.g. one row represents one subject at one timepoint.
- **`category.sub.metadata`** *(string)*: Sub-category for a metadata resource. Must be one of: `["", "heal-formatted-data-dictionary", "other-formatted-data-dictionary", "protocol", "id-map", "analysis-plan", "heal-formatted-results-tracker", "heal-formatted-experiment-tracker"]`.
- **`category.sub.data`** *(string)*: Sub-category for a data resource. Must be one of: `["", "raw", "processed-intermediate", "processed-final"]`.
- **`category.sub.results`** *(string)*: Sub-category for a results resource. Must be one of: `["", "figure", "table", "text", "draft-publication", "publication", "report", "white-paper", "presentation", "poster"]`.
- **`assoc.file.dd`** *(array)*: For a tabular data file resources, a reference/file path to associated data dictionary file(s) - preferably in heal csv data dictionary format.
  - **Items** *(string)*
- **`assoc.file.protocol`** *(array)*: For a data file resource, a reference/file path to associated protocol file(s).
  - **Items** *(string)*
- **`assoc.file.result.tracker`** *(array)*: For a multi-result file resource, a reference/file path to associated HEAL result tracker file - HEAL result tracker is a file that tracks each result in a multi-result file (e.g. a publication, poster, etc.), along with the data and other supporting files that underly/support each result. If you are using the DSC Packaging Desktop Application, you can head to the Result Tracker tab of the application to create a HEAL formatted result tracker for your multi-result resource file(s).
  - **Items** *(string)*
- **`assoc.file.depends.on`** *(array)*: For all resource files, if the current resource file has dependencies/if other files are necessary to make this file (e.g. raw data file necessary to make processed data file), or to interpret/understand this file (e.g. protocol, analysis plan, etc.), list them here; if documenting resources wholistically (i.e. documenting all resources related to a study), only list dependencies one layer deep; if documenting resources minimally (i.e. only documenting resources that will be publicly shared), list dependencies liberally; dependencies can be data, code, protocol, etc.; if already listed under assoc.file.dd, assoc.file.protocol, or assoc.file.id.map no need to repeat here.
  - **Items** *(string)*
- **`assoc.file.result.depends.on`** *(array)*: if the current resource file is a heal formatted result tracker (this tracks the single results in a multi-result file, like a publication), use this field to list each result in the tracker along with its corresponding dependencies (i.e. files the result depends on, or are necessary to make/reach/interpret the result); if documenting resources wholistically (i.e. documenting all resources related to a study), only list dependencies one layer deep; if documenting resources minimally (i.e. only documenting resources that will be publicly shared), list dependencies liberally; dependencies can be data, code, protocol, etc.
  - **Items** *(object)*
    - **`result.id`** *(string)*
    - **`result.id.depends.on`** *(array)*
- **`assoc.file.multi.like.file`** *(array)*: if the current resource file is annotating a resource that is one of multiple 'like' files, this field will list all files that are part of the resources.
  - **Items** *(string)*
- **`access`** *(array)*: What is the current/final access level anticipated for this resource? Options are permanent-private (current and final access level is private), temporary-private (current access level is private but final access level will be either restricted-access or public), restricted-access (current, final, or current AND final access level will allow request of data with barriers/restrictions to access), public (current, final, or current AND final access level will allow largely unrestricted request of/access to data); Many investigators will designate data as currently temporary-private, with a final access level of either restricted-access or public: In this case choose both temporary-private AND either 1) restricted-access or 2) public, then add the date at which you expect to transition from temporary-private to either restricted-access or public in the Access Date field below; Private means members of the public cannot request access; Restricted access means they can request access but there is gate-keeping; Public access means they can often access the data without requesting access, and with minimal barriers to access.
  - **Items** *(string)*: Must be one of: `["", "permanent-private", "temporary-private", "restricted-access", "public"]`.
- **`access.date`** *(string)*: If the resource file is currently being held as temporary-private access level and will transition to either restricted-access or public access level at some point, please provide an anticipated date at which this transition will occur - Best guesses are appreciated, however you will NOT be held to this date and may update this date at any time.
- **`format`** *(string)*: auto inferred; e.g. csv.
- **`format.software`** *(string)*: If the file format of the resource file is proprietary and requires specific software to open/interpret, provide the software name and version used by the study group to produce/work with the file; e.g. Origin 11.0, CorelDraw 5.6.
- **`profile`** *(string)*: auto inferred; e.g. tabular-data-resource.
- **`mediatype`** *(string)*: auto inferred; e.g. text/csv.
- **`encoding`** *(string)*: auto inferred; e.g. utf-8.
- **`schema`** *(string)*: auto inferred; for tabular resource, schema of fields contained in tabular resource; might replace this with ref to either heal csv dd or heal json dd.
- **`resource.create.date.time`** *(string)*: Date time of resource creation; auto-inferred.
- **`resource.mod.date.time`** *(string)*: Date time at which the resource was last modified; auto-inferred.
- **`restrk.create.date.time`** *(string)*: Date time at which the resource tracker file for the resource was created; auto-inferred.
- **`restrk.mod.date.time`** *(string)*: Date time at which the resource tracker file for the resource was last modified; auto-inferred.

