## Wholistic annotation of study artefacts
Wholistic annotation involves creating and maintaining documentation that catalogues and annotates all files and non-data/supporting documents generated by and associated with your study regardless of whether you are planning to share them. Files that will not be shared are documented as permanent-private. This type of annotation works best paired with ['add as you go' annotation], as it easier an less time consuming to annotate wholistically, retrospectively, as part of ['top-down' annotation].

Although this mode of annotation is more time consuming, it maximizes transparency and allows investigators interested in the data to understand the full scope of the project when accessing study documentation on the Platform. This structure also allows for documentation of the existence and disposition of files that are too sensitive to share but are important for reproducibility and can perhaps be requested directly from the study team by an investigator.

**Who may choose to share this way**

- Study groups that have not started collecting data or are very early in the data collection process 
- Study groups that are earlier in the process and are interested in understanding and implementing a file and folder structure that facilitates data sharing in the future
- Study groups that want to maximise the amount of information that they share about their study

**Pros to sharing to this way**

- You get the benefit of full local annotation, which not only maximizes the usefulness of your data for other investigators but also can be helpful internally, especially in preserving knowledge about the data even as team members may change over the course of the study.
- Although more time consuming at the beginning, integration of this process into your workflows allows for documentation and annotation in parts as you move through the study, so that you do not need to compile all that information at the end of the study, retrospectively.
- Documenting and sharing all metadata associated with your study can increase the discoverability of your study.

**Cons to sharing this way**

- More time consuming, because it requires you to set up the structures to fully catalogue all data and non-data/supporting files that are relevant to your study.

**Notes about wholistic annotation**

If you are early in your study and choose to pursue wholistic annotation, we recommend you consider reviewing and implementing [HEAL recommendations for organizing and naming of study artefacts]. This will ease the process of annotation as well as future data sharing.

If you are annotating wholistically, you will also document dependencies 'one-layer-deep'. For more information, see [Resource Tracker: Associated Files/Dependencies] and ['One Layer Deep' Dependencies].


## Minimal annotation of study artefacts
Minimal annotation starts with the main file you are focused on sharing, whether that is a multi-result file, such as a publication or presentation, or a dataset, and works backwards. Rather than documenting all files, you document only the data and non-data file dependencies required to reproduce the final results or dataset. This is likely more ideal for studies that may be close to data collection completion and are not focused on meeting data sharing requirements but do not have adequate funding or time to devote the complete documentation of the data. This type of annotation pairs well with ‘top-down’ annotation, which retrospectively annotates study artefacts.

<details>
<summary> Who may choose to share this way</summary>
    <ul>
    <li> Study groups that may be finished or close to finished collecting data and have already produced results files (e.g., figures, draft publications/NIH reports, etc.) </li>
    <li> Study groups that want to meet minimal data sharing requirements of sharing data underlying published results</li>
</details>

<details>
<summary> Pros to sharing this way</summary>
    <ul>
    <li> You only catalog the data and non-data/supporting files that you will share/submit to a repository.</li>
    <li> This is less work than fully cataloguing all data and non-data/supporting files relevant to a study (including files you will not share/submit to a repository), especially if the study is well underway or complete/nearing completion and/or does not have resources or time set aside for a complete file inventory.</li>
    <li>This approach allows you to fulfill the minimal data sharing requirements of sharing data underlying published results.</li>
</details>

<details>
<summary> Cons to sharing this way</summary>
    <ul>
    <li> You don’t get the full local annotation benefit that would come with fully cataloguing all data and non-data/supporting files relevant to a study (including files you will not share/submit to a repository), and how they relate to each other and to published results – these benefits include <i>facilitating continuity and passed-down knowledge within study groups</i>, and discovery, sharing, and re-use of the data and knowledge produced by the study outside of the original study group.</li>
    <li>You don’t get the full benefit of the added discoverability that data-package level metadata can provide.</li>
</details>


**Notes about minimal annotation**

Even if you are not early in your study and are pursuing minimal annotation, we do not recommend reorganizing all your files or folder structures. However, we do recommend you consider reviewing and implementing naming conventions for like files, detailed in [HEAL recommendations for organizing and naming study artefacts]. This will ease the process of annotation.

If you are annotating minimally, you will document dependences 'liberally'. For more information, see [Resource Tracker: Associated Files/Dependencies] adn ['Liberal' Dependencies].