## Tabular data file

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

A data file that is organized in a table with rows and columns.

</div>

## Multi-result file

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

A file that contains multiple results from your study. Some examples of multi-results files include manuscripts, posters, and presentations.

</div>

## Study resources

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

All data and non-data supporting files/documents/resources generated by and associated with your study, regardless of whether you are planning to share them.

</div>

## Standard data package metadata files

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

Standard metadata file types that, altogether, provide essential usability and context information about the study as a whole and about the data files your study has produced/collected. These metadata files should be included in all data packages. 

**NOTE**: All standard data package metadata files have a standardized csv format in which they should be completed and provided. See here for [csv templates] and [field definitions] to aid you in completing the templates. 

### Standard data package metadata - Study-level 

* #### **Experiment Tracker**
     one per study; an inventory of experiments or activities included in the study; for a clinical trial, this may be simply one experiment equal to the registered clinical trial activity; for a basic biology study, this may be a listing of several orthogonal experiments used altogether to address and advance the study aims, 
* #### **Resource Tracker**
     one per study; an inventory of all data and non-data supporting files produced during the course of the study (or, in some cases, only those which will be shared in a public data repository), including a description of what is in the file or what the file represents, file relationships and dependencies, and whether/how each file is shareable in a public repository or not  

### Standard data package metadata - File-level 

* #### **Data Dictionary**
     one per tabular data file; an inventory of variables included in a tabular data file 
* #### **Results Tracker**
     one per multi-result file (e.g. manuscript); an inventory of figure, table, and text results included in a multi-result file 

</div>

## Experiment Tracker

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

The Experiment Tracker is an inventory and annotated list of all component experiments or activities that are part of the larger study. Each row of the experiment tracker corresponds to one component experiment or activity. Information in the tracker about each experiment includes the research question(s), approach, and hypotheses.

The Experiment Tracker is one of the standard data package metadata files which should always be included in a data package to provide essential usability and context information about the study as a whole and about the data files your study has produced/collected. There are study-level and file-level standard data package metadata files. The Experiment Tracker is a **study-level** standard data package metadata file (**you should create and complete one Experiment Tracker per study**).

Please follow the links below for additional information on:

* [Standard data package metadata files](#standard-data-package-metadata-files)
* [Standard data package metadata files - Study-level](#standard-data-package-metadata-study-level)
* [Experiment Tracker overview](#experiment-tracker)
* Experiment Tracker csv template
* Experiment Tracker field definitions

</div>


## Resource Tracker

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

The Resource Tracker is an inventory and annotated list of data and non-data supporting files/resources for the study. Each row of the resource tracker corresponds to one data or non-data resource. Information in the tracker about each resource includes file path, description, access restrictions, and dependencies (i.e. files necessary to interpret, replicate, or use the resource). 

The Resource Tracker is one of the standard data package metadata files which should always be included in a data package to provide essential usability and context information about the study as a whole and about the data files your study has produced/collected. There are study-level and file-level standard data package metadata files. The Resource Tracker is a **study-level** standard data package metadata file (**you should create and complete one Resource Tracker per study**).

Please follow the links below for additional information on:

* [Standard data package metadata files](#standard-data-package-metadata-files)
* [Standard data package metadata files - Study-level](#standard-data-package-metadata-study-level)
* [Resource Tracker overview](#resource-tracker)
* Resource Tracker csv template
* Resource Tracker field definitions

</div>

## Data Dictionary

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

The Data Dictionary is an inventory and annotated list of variables within a single tabular data file (e.g. subject ID, blood pressure, zip code, protein activitiy, etc.). Each row of the data dictionary corresponds to one variable within a tabular data file. Information in the data dictionary about each variable includes the name of the variable, a description of the variable, type of variable (string, numeric, integer), etc.

The Data Dictionary is one of the standard data package metadata files which should always be included in a data package to provide essential usability and context information about the study as a whole and about the data files your study has produced/collected. There are study-level and file-level standard data package metadata files. The Data Dictionary is a **file-level** standard data package metadata file (**you should create and complete one Data Dictionary per tabular data file in your data package**).

Please follow the links below for additional information on:

* [Standard data package metadata files](#standard-data-package-metadata-files)
* [Standard data package metadata files - File-level](#standard-data-package-metadata-file-level)
* [Data Dictionary overview](#data-dictionary)
* Data Dictionary csv template
* Data Dictionary field definitions

</div>

## Results Tracker

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

The Results Tracker is an inventory and annotated list of results within a single multi-result file (e.g. manuscript, presentation). Each row of the results tracker corresponds to one result (e.g. a figure, table, or textual statement) within a multi-result file. Information in the tracker about each result includes the type of result (figure, table, text), description, and dependencies (i.e. files necessary to interpret, replicate, or use the result).

The Results Tracker is one of the standard data package metadata files which should always be included in a data package to provide essential usability and context information about the study as a whole and about the data files your study has produced/collected. There are study-level and file-level standard data package metadata files. The Results Tracker is a **file-level** standard data package metadata file (**you should create and complete one Results Tracker per multi-result file in your data package**).

Please follow the links below for additional information on:

* [Standard data package metadata files](#standard-data-package-metadata-files)
* [Standard data package metadata files - File-level](#standard-data-package-metadata-file-level)
* [Results Tracker overview](#results-tracker)
* Results Tracker csv template
* Results Tracker field definitions

</div>

## Minimal annotation 

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

**When completing the Resource Tracker for your study**: 

* Minimal annotation implies that you will list and annotate relevant study resources ONLY if you will share those files in a public data repository
* When completing the Resource Tracker you will NOT list and annotate relevant study files if they will not be shared in a public data repository
* See the alternative: [Wholistic Annotation](#wholistic-annotation)

<details>
<summary> Advantages</summary>
    <ul>
    <li> You only catalog the data and non-data supporting files that you will share/submit to a repository.</li>
    <li> Especially if you are late in your study, Minimal Annotation may be less time consuming than the alternative (Wholistic Annotation), because you are listing and annotating fewer files (i.e. only the files that will be shared , versus all files that will be shared AND all files that will NOT be shared) in the Resource Tracker for your study.</li>
    <li>This approach still provides a lot of value to researchers who may find your study - It will help them to parse what the study was trying to do, how the study was designed, what has been made available, whether or not the data that has been made available may be useful for their purposes (e.g. secondary data analysis, comparison to their own results, etc.), and even whether it may be useful to reach out to the study group of origin to request data that has not been provided or to set up a formal collaboration.</li>
    <li>This approach allows you to fulfill minimal data sharing requirements.</li>

</details>

<details >
<summary> Caveats</summary>
    <ul >
    <li> As compared to the alternative (Wholistic Annotation), you don’t get the full local annotation benefit that would come with fully cataloguing all data and non-data/supporting files relevant to a study (including files you will not share/submit to a repository), and how they relate to each other and to published results – these benefits include <i>facilitating continuity and passed-down knowledge within study groups</i>, and discovery, sharing, and re-use of the data and knowledge produced by the study outside of the original study group.</li>
    <li>As compared to the alternative (Wholistic Annotation), you may not get the full benefit of added study discoverability and transparencty for potential secondary data users and collaborators that the Resource Tracker can provide.</li>
  
</details>

</div>

## Wholistic annotation 

<div markdown="1" style="background-color:rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.0470588); text-align:left; vertical-align: top; padding:10px 10px;">

**When completing the Resource Tracker for your study**: 

* Wholistic annotation implies that you will list and annotate relevant study resources without regard for whether (or not) you will share those files in a public data repository
* When completing the Resource Tracker you will list and annotate relevant study files that will be shared AND those that will NOT be shared
* When listing/annotating a file that will NOT be shared, access level should be set to "permanent-private" to indicate that the file will not be shared 
* See the alternative: [Minimal Annotation](#minimal-annotation)

<details>
<summary> Advantages</summary>
    <ul>
    <li> Maximizes transparency and allows other researchers interested in the data to understand the full scope of the project and the data when accessing study documentation.</li>
    <li> allows for documentation of the existence and disposition of files that are too sensitive to share but are important for reproducibility and can perhaps be requested directly from the study team by another researcher.</li>
    <li> You get the benefit of full local annotation, which not only maximizes the usefulness of your data for other investigators but also can be helpful internally, especially in preserving knowledge about the data even as team members may change over the course of the study.</li>
    <li> Documenting and sharing all metadata associated with your study can increase the discoverability of your study.</li>

</details>

<details >
<summary> Caveats</summary>
    <ul >
    <li> Especially if you are late in your study, Wholistic Annotation may be more time consuming than the alternative (Minimal Annotation), because you are listing and annotating more files (i.e. files that will be shared AND files that will NOT be shared, versus ONLY files that will be shared) in the Resource Tracker for your study.</li>
  
</details>

</div>


